= shhh

shhh is a tool to facilitate keeping dotfiles in git, including those with private information (such as .gitconfig).

== Getting started

  gem install shhh
  shhh import ~/.bashrc
  
At this point, a git repository will have been created at ~/.dotfiles. At some point more of the git workflow will be automated (such as creating a repository at Github), but for now most git tasks are manual:
  
  cd ~/.dotfiles
  git commit -m "Added bashrc"

== Filesystem layout

With shhh, dotfiles are stored in a centralized location (by default ~/.dotfiles), and symlinks are created for these files in the user's home directory. Here is a basic setup for a .gitconfig file:

    +-~/                      Home Directory
    | +-.shhh_secrets         Secrets file
    | +-.gitconfig            Symlink to ~/.dotfiles/gitconfig
    | +-.dotfiles/            Dotfiles directory
    | | +-gitconfig           Standard Dotfile
    | | +-gitconfig.dynamic   Classified dotfile

=== Home directory (~)

Where the action happens. Dotfiles that normally exist here are replaced by symlinks to files in the dotfiles directory

=== Dotfiles directory (~/)

Where dotfiles are stored. There are two types of dotfiles.

==== Standard dotfiles

A basic config file that would normally live in a user's home directory.

==== Classified dotfiles
A config file that contains some secret information. The file is stored, sans secret info, with a '.classified' extension in the repo. The dotfile that is symlinked to the user's home directory is then generated from this file.
  
=== Secrets file

This file, be default located at ~/.shhh_secrets, contains the information removed from dotfiles imported using the redact command.
  
== Commands

=== import PATH_TO_FILE

Imports a dotfile into thedotfiles directory, moving it to the dotfiles directory and replacing it with a symlink to its new location.


=== redact PATH_TO_FILE

Imports a dotfile that contains sensitive information. The user is presented with an editor, where the sensitive information can be removed by replacing secret information with a commented out call to a shhh function
  
  # before
  password: superSecretPassword 
  
  # after
  password: # shhh(:password)

This file is then saved with a '.classified' extension, and the original file is added to ~/.dotfiles/.gitignore so it will not be added to the repository.
  
'superSecretPassword' will be stored using the key :password in the secrets file.


=== sync
Creates a symlink in the user's home directory for each dotfile in the dotfiles directory.


=== generate
Creates local version of a classified dotfile, using information found in the secrets file to fill in any that was removed.



== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix on a topic branch.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request.

== Changelog

* 0.1.3 The sync command no longer creates symlinks for dynamic files
* 0.1.2 Added dynamic file generation

== TODO

* rename 'import --dynamic' to 'redact'
* standardize environment variable names (use 'PATH')

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Jim Benton. See LICENSE for details.